---
h1: Cleaning Up After FedUp
layout: post
pagetitle: Cleaning Up After FedUp
tags: ["linux"]
comments: true
---
Last night I tried upgrading from Fedora 17 to Fedora 18 using the official [FedUp](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/FedUp#How_Can_I_Upgrade_My_System_with_FedUp.3F) tool.

The process took a couple hours and seemed to be going as planned until the final reboot step. After logging in, I was greeted by several issues that were annoying but relatively trivial to solve. Here are the quick and dirty fixes I used.


## XFCE died!

Probably the most alarming problem of the bunch. Window controls were missing, menus wouldn't open, and clicks would pass straight through overlapping windows. To add insult to injury, all of the Settings Manager settings *except* those related to window management could be accessed.

The file `libxfce4util.so` got replaced by a newer version with a different filename, so XFCE doesn't know where to find it anymore. (If you've used Windows before, you can think of SO files as the Linux version of DLLs.) Although I'm fairly sure there are more future-proof ways around this, symlinking to the new version easily did the trick:

```shell
ln -s /usr/lib64/libxfce4util.so /usr/lib64/libxfce4util.so.4
```

If you couldn't get this far with XFCE's window manager down, try opening a terminal and running `sudo xfwm4`. (I was fortunately able to do this because I had mapped a keyboard shortcut to open terminal windows beforehand.) That should bring back functionality long enough to implement the more permanent solution above.

Your `libxfce4util.so` file may not be in `/usr/lib64`. In that case, run `locate libxfce4util.so` to find it.

## Fedora immediately suspends again after waking!

[This](http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.redhat.fedora.general/423527) worked for me (after rebooting).

## Google Chrome won't open!

As with `libxfce4util.so`, the file `libudev.so` got updated with a new filename. I ran:

```shell
$ ln -s /usr/lib64/libudev.so.1 /usr/lib64/libudev.so.0
```

Funnily enough, I was still able to open Chromium before applying this fix.

## Clipboard operations lag in Sublime Text!

Not sure if this is a Sublime-only problem, but it's recently been very widely reported among 64-bit XFCE users. Solved by removing the clipman taskbar applet.
## Apache died!

[This](http://www.yodi.sg/fix-httpd-apache-wont-start-problem-in-fedora-18/) worked for me.

## VMware Workstation can't find kernel headers!

[This](https://ask.fedoraproject.org/question/3485/vmware-player-f18-kernel-headers?answer=4993#answer-container-4993) worked for me. I used the more general version:

```shell
$ sudo cp /usr/include/linux/version.h \
    /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/build/include/linux
```

## My taskbar doesn't horizontally stretch anymore!

XFCE separator items' properties include an Expand checkbox option that FedUp decided to unset for some reason.
